Welcome back to the last lecture
of the natours project, so it's now time
to wrap it up, but before doing that,
there are some small tweaks that we should make,
and there are some final considerations
that I want to say about this project as well.
And the first very small and very subtle change
that I want to do is to change the effect
that happens when we select some text on the page,
okay, so this is just the standard that happens,
but I don't really like that, and I always like
to add my own personal style and touch
to these kind of small details, okay,
so we can change the style of selected text.
Okay, and so let's quickly do that,
and we can do so here, in the base file,
okay, so down here let's just add the selections pseudo
element, so selection,
and then we can simply change the background color.
For example, to the primary color.
So color, primary and then change the text color as well,
so color, and then I think this one is called color white.
Okay, and we should have our development set up still,
yeah, so it should have reloaded now,
and yeah, so this looks much better, right?
So whenever the user selects text, now,
he can see your own personal style
applied to that selection, okay.
So I think that looks pretty cool.
Now another small thing that I want to change,
or to fix, is something that's considered
to be a best practice, and that's in the media queries,
okay, so in here, the media queries work
just fine like this, but we should actually add,
only screen to them, okay, and what that
does is that the media query only gets applied to screens,
okay, so this is basically first condition,
only screen, and then the max width,
so for example if someone tries to print out our page,
then these media queries don't apply,
okay, so they only apply to screens.
So let's just copy this, into all our media queries,
alright, and we actually have another one in our header,
I believe, so, yeah, right here.
And we want this applied to all of them, right?
Alright, so that was another small thing
that I wanted to fix and since we're talking
about media queries, there's another thing
that I should show you and that's this piece of code,
and this was already in our HTML so in the starter files
that are provided for this project,
but we should still not overlook this,
because responsive web design does not work
without having this meta element here in the HTML head.
Because what this does is basically to say that
our website should be rendered with the width
of the device, so this is here, what happens,
the width of the content should be the device width,
so if we have a device with 500 pixels,
then a website should have a width of 500 pixels.
And that's of course, what we want,
but if we do not specify this here in the HTML,
then the browser will basically zoom out our page,
so that the largest possible version of our page
fits the screen, so for example,
if our widest element, like the rel for example
has 1,000 pixels, then the browser will try
to render the page with a width of 1,000 pixels.
If we didn't have this meta name view port element
in our markup, okay, so whenever you're coding
a new page, don't forget to put this part in there.
Alright, now, another thing about media queries,
is something that I want to show you here,
actually, in the inspector, because there's still
a problem going on, and that is here with the cards,
so remember that for smaller screens,
we put that side that was before on the back,
here in the front, so that the user can see the button here
without hovering the card, right,
and that's because on mobile devices,
people can not really hover, and even if they can,
it's not so easy to happen, and so maybe the user
could never even see that there is a back part
of these cards, and would never see this button,
okay, and so therefore for the smaller screens,
we did it like this because we're assuming
that the smaller screens are only for devices
where the users can not hover.
Now, imagine that we're browsing this page
on a huge device, like an iPad,
in landscape mode, or like an iPad Pro.
Also, whether in portrait mode or in landscape mode.
So right now you see that even though
we're on a touch device, you can not see the back part,
right, so the user will not hover this card,
and will not see the book now button
that's behind the cards because again,
on a mobile touch device, users do usually not hover,
and so what all of that means is that we can not
simply identify a touch device by the width
of the screen alone, okay, but, good news
is that in CSS we can actually write a media query
which can identify if the user can hover
over elements, or not, and with that,
we can very easily identify touch devices
and non touch devices, where we have a mouse, okay?
So let's very quickly implement that.
And so we should go to our current element.
And so down here we have the media query,
and we now want to add another condition to it.
Now the problem here is that we used this
respond mix in in order to write this media query,
and so it's impossible to add a second condition
to the media query, so what we have to do here
is to actually write out the real media query,
so let's get that, so tab port, tab port.
So that is the media query,
so I'm going to remove that or comment it out.
And so this is the original media query that we had.
So we want all of this to happen
when the screen is smaller than 56 M, right,
but we also want it to happen if we have a touch device,
right, and how do we do that, well,
it's actually very simple, so again,
we use only screen, and,
all we have to say is hover none.
So the card should be displayed with the back part visible
when the screen is smaller than this,
or whenever we're using a device where we can not hover.
Which basically means, whenever we have a device
which uses touch as the primary input.
Now if you wanted to do this the other way around,
then you could use hover and say that to hover,
okay, so that's the opposite of hover none,
but in this case, of course, that's what we want.
And so now let's reload this entire thing,
and you see that now it is actually appearing here,
even on this large width, right.
Now in order to have some more control
about this testing, we can add here,
the device type, okay, I know of course it's set to mobile
because we're on an iPad Pro here
and so that, of course, is a mobile device.
Now if we have an iPad for example,
then it looks like this, or in portrait like this,
but if you go back to responses, then we can also,
set this here manually, so for example
on this huge width here, of course this should originally
be hidden, and so if we set this to desktop,
then of course it's gone, right,
because now it's not a touch device.
But if we set it to touch or to mobile,
then it's back to looking like this,
so our media query is actually working just fine.
So I hope that made sense to you, okay,
so let's now get out of this mode,
and okay, so something else that I want to talk about
with you is this navigation, here,
okay, so, maybe you notice that when we click here,
then nothing really happens, right?
And that's because that is something that
is not really possible to implement with CSS alone,
so if you wanted to really make this functional,
so maybe when you click on the button
then it scrolls to the correct section,
and at the same time, closes the navigation,
so if you want all of that functionality,
then you really have to use JavaScript and not CSS alone,
okay, but what I wanted to show you with this,
is that just with CSS, we can do an amazing effect
like this here and also how to take advantage
of the jack box hack, okay, so I really wanted
to show you that even though the functionality
is not 100% there, okay, now, another thing
is down here when you see that these icons here
are missing, okay, and that is because in the HTML,
we already removed that part, right here,
remember, so let's not worry about this,
because once we run our built process,
those icons will be back, right,
so what I wanted to show you now, next,
is this here, so everything works just fine,
but the problem with this is that usually
when we have a popup effect, when we click
outside this area here, then the popup
should also go away, right, that's usual behavior
of a popup, and that's not working right now,
but in the real world, there should be another way
of closing a popup, alright, so once again
for that, you'll probably have to use JavaScript
and not rely only on CSS, but again I wanted to show you
how you can actually implement something like this,
in pure CSS and show you how far CSS has become
and how advanced it has become, in recent years.
Okay, now aside from that I think this webpage
is looking really great, I hope that you did
all the challenges so you made everything
really responsive so all the background images,
including and yeah so this project should basically
be ready to launch, now just taking a last look
at our code, a thing that I didn't do throughout
the course, was to comment my code, okay,
but that's something that in real life,
you should absolutely do, not only for yourself,
so when you come back in the future,
you still know how exactly your CSS works,
but also for other developers,
so imagine you write some CSS, and then later
someone else has to maintain that CSS,
so another developer, then in order to make his life
easier you should always comment your CSS,
so you should definitely write a lot more CSS comments
than I did, okay, all I did was like,
say front side styling, and some other
really basic comments like that,
but again, when you write code in the real world,
then please make sure that you write a lot of comments,
always, now another thing that we could have done
in our project is to use a lot more variables,
so basically all the numbers, they could simply
be stored in variables, for example,
all of the margins, we could have a couple
of global variables here in our variable file,
and then all the margins could simply depend
on these variables, or for the Z index,
you could use them as variables as well,
or maybe all the font sizes, so a lot
of variables could be used and I didn't do that
because I wanted to focus more on the CSS part itself
and not so much on the scss part.
Okay, but still, we did a lot of scss
and of architecture, and I also showed you
how you could use variables for all of that,
and so therefore, I used variables
for some of the things just to show you how it works,
and then I did other stuff, without the variables, okay,
so we're not always jumping back and forth
between files and simply to make this project
a bit more fun to code here in the videos.
Okay, and now the very last thing
before we leave this video, is to actually
run our built command one last time, right, so let's do that
and we can finish this process here,
and on a Mac you can do that by hitting control C,
okay, so not command C, but control C,
and on Windows, I am unfortunately not really sure,
so probably just open another window, I would say,
and close the one which has this process running, okay,
and the process that we want to run now, is our...
I've got to close these, is our package json,
and it's called built CSS.
So NPM run, build CSS.
And letting it do it's thing, and alright,
so let's take one last look, and now actually,
it's not working because we canceled the live server,
okay, so we have to actually start that again,
so NPM run start and so here we go,
now our icons should be back, and yeah,
so right now everything is working,
and so yeah, that's it that's the project,
I really hope that you enjoyed coding this project,
as much as I did, I think it was really a lot of fun.
And really cool beautiful project to learn,
all of these new skills that you just learned.
So once again, congratulations, for this achievement,
we've come, really, a long way up until this point.
Now if you want to continue then next up,
I have another very cool project,
where the main focus is on mastering flex box,
which is an amazing new way of building lay outs,
so if you're excited about that,
then let's move on together right now,
right to the next section, hope to see you over there.